Create docs for AWS CodePipeline integration (#20398)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/pipelines/awscodepipeline.md

---
title: Set up Tracing on a AWS CodePipeline Pipeline
kind: documentation
aliases:
  - /continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/codepipeline
further_reading:
    - link: "/continuous_integration/pipelines"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Explore Pipeline Execution Results and Performance"
    - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Troubleshooting CI"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

## Compatibility

- **Partial pipelines**: View partially retried executions

## Configure the Datadog integration

> To set up the integration between [AWS CodePipeline][1] and Datadog CI Visibility, two AWS resources need to be created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up the integration between [AWS CodePipeline][1] and Datadog CI Visibility, create two AWS resources  during the EventBridge Rule creation process:
```

Author: Mmm I would prefer to not have `during the EventBridge Rule creation process` there, as also in the guide they are created separately. So we could go for an hybrid like:

```suggestion
To set up the integration between [AWS CodePipeline][1] and Datadog CI Visibility, create two AWS resources:
```

?

1. [API Destination][2]: an HTTP endpoint pointing to Datadog's intake.
2. [AWS EventBridge Rule][3]: a rule that forwards CodePipeline events to the API Destination.

> The following guide separates the two creation steps for clarity, but note that it's not required to create the resources
> separately. They can also be created at the same time during the EventBridge Rule creation process.
> 
> More information about monitoring pipeline events can be found in the [official AWS guide][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create these resources separately, or at the same time. For more information about monitoring pipeline events, see the [official AWS guide][4].
```

Author: And here perhaps we can re-add the "during the EventBridge Rule creation process" from above:

```suggestion
You can create these resources separately, or at the same time, during the EventBridge Rule creation process. For more information about monitoring pipeline events, see the [official AWS guide][4].
```

what do you think?

Reviewer 2: LGTM

### Create the API Destination

> 1. In the AWS Console, go to **EventBridge > API destinations** and click on **Create API destination**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the AWS Console, go to **EventBridge > API destinations** and click **Create API destination**.
```

> 2. Choose a name for the API Destination (for example, **datadog-ci-visibility-api**) and optionally add a description.

Author: (see comment above)

> 3. Under **API destination endpoint**, input <code>https://webhook-intake.{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}/api/v2/webhook</code>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Under **API destination endpoint**, input <code>https://webhook-intake.{{< region-param key="dd_site" >}}/api/v2/webhook</code>.
```

4. Under **HTTP method**, select **POST**.
5. Under Connection type, select **Create a new connection**:

>    1. Choose a name for the connection (for example, **datadog-ci-visibility-connection**) and optionally add a description.

Author: (see comment above)

>    2. Under **Destination type**, select **Other**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Under **Destination type**, select **Other**.
```

   3. Under **Authorization type**, select **API key**.
   Input **DD-API-KEY** as the **API key name** and input your [Datadog API Key][5] in the **Value** field.

> 6. Click on **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click **Create**.
```

### Create the EventBridge Rule

> 1. In the AWS Console, go to **EventBridge > Rules** and click on **Create Rule**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the AWS Console, go to **EventBridge > Rules** and click **Create Rule**.
```

2. Choose a name for the rule (for example, **datadog-ci-visibility-integration**) and optionally add a description.

> 3. Leave the event bus as **default**, and, under **Rule Type**, select **Rule with an event pattern**. Click on **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Leave the event bus as **default**, and, under **Rule Type**, select **Rule with an event pattern**. Click **Next**.
```

4. Under **Event Source**, select **AWS events or EventBridge partner events**.
5. Under **Creation Method**, select **Custom pattern (JSON editor)**. Then, under **Event Pattern**, input the following JSON:
   ```
   {
     "source": ["aws.codepipeline"],
     "detail-type": ["CodePipeline Pipeline Execution State Change", "CodePipeline Action Execution State Change", "CodePipeline Stage Execution State Change"]
   }
   ```
   The JSON above sets up the integration for all of your pipelines. To restrict the set of pipelines,
   follow the [Only monitor specific pipelines][6] section below.

> 6. Click on **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click **Next**.
```

7. Under **Target Types**, select **EventBridge API destination**. Then, choose **Use an existing API Destination**
and select the API destination that you have created in the previous step. Alternatively, you can also create the API destination

> at this moment by following the steps outlined in the [Create the API Destination][7] section.

Reviewer 2: remove "at this moment"

> 8. Under **Headers Parameters**, Click on **Add header parameter**. Input `DD-CI-PROVIDER-AWSCODEPIPELINE` as the key and `true` as the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Under **Headers Parameters**, click **Add header parameter**. Input `DD-CI-PROVIDER-AWSCODEPIPELINE` as the key and `true` as the value.
```

> 9. Choose **Create a new role for this specific resource** (or use an existing one if you prefer).

Reviewer 2: remove "if you prefer"

10. Review that the information is correct and create the rule.

Once the rule is created, the integration is complete, and you can monitor your pipelines in Datadog.

### Only monitor specific pipelines

> You can optionally restrict the pipelines that are monitored by the CI Visibility product.

Reviewer 2: "by Pipeline Visibility"

To do this, add the `detail.pipeline` filter in the rule event pattern defined when creating the EventBridge Rule. For example:

```
 {
   "source": ["aws.codepipeline"],
   "detail-type": ["CodePipeline Pipeline Execution State Change", "CodePipeline Action Execution State Change", "CodePipeline Stage Execution State Change"],
   "detail": {
     "pipeline": ["first-pipeline", "second-pipeline"]
   }
 }
 ```

The event pattern above sets up the integration only for the `first-pipeline` and `second-pipeline` pipelines.

### Correlate pipelines with tests

If you are using [Test Visibility][8] and your pipeline contains one or more [AWS CodeBuild][9] actions to execute tests, you can correlate your tests

> with the related pipeline inside Datadog Pipeline Visibility. To do that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the related pipeline inside Datadog Pipeline Visibility. 

```

> with the related pipeline inside Datadog's CI Visibility product. To do that:

Reviewer 2: "with the related pipeline inside Datadog Pipeline Visibility."

> 1. In the AWS Console, go to your pipeline configuration and click on **Edit**
> 2. Go to the stage containing the AWS CodeBuild action, click on **Edit Stage**, and then edit the relevant action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the AWS Console, go to your pipeline configuration and click **Edit**
2. Go to the stage containing the AWS CodeBuild action, click **Edit Stage**, and then edit the relevant action.
```

> 3. Under **Environment variables**, add a new environment variable. The name of the variable should be `DD_PIPELINE_EXECUTION_ID`

Reviewer 2: "Name the variable `DD_PIPELINE_EXECUTION_ID`, and the value `#{codepipeline.PipelineExecutionId}`. Leave the type as _Plaintext_."

> 3. Under **Environment variables**, add a new environment variable.
> Name the variable `DD_PIPELINE_EXECUTION_ID`, and the value `#{codepipeline.PipelineExecutionId}`. Leave the type as _Plaintext_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Under **Environment variables**, add an environment variable.
Name the variable `DD_PIPELINE_EXECUTION_ID`, and the value `#{codepipeline.PipelineExecutionId}`. Leave the type as _Plaintext_.
```

> 4. Click on **Done** to save your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Done** to save your changes.
```

> The steps above allow you to add the pipeline execution ID to your CodeBuild action environment variables. More information
> can be found in the official AWS guide on [Working with Variables][10].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps above allow you to add the pipeline execution ID to your CodeBuild action environment variables. For more information on working with variables, see the [official AWS guide][10].
```
